**As a warmup, tell me a little about your education prior to coming to UofM.**  

So my undergrad was in mechanical engineering, then I switched to computer science. I did a minor in computer science as an undergrad, then I did my master's at UofM in computer science, where from the get-go I was doing research.

**Approximately how many people do you account as your peers at UofM, whatever peers might mean to you?**  

Uh, okay. Difficult question. I'll define peers as people that I could potentially discuss matters with, or people who I think will be able to attend a talk I give and give me feedback and vice versa, whose talks I can attend and give feedback too. And in that sense, I would say probably like 30 to 40 people. 

**How many years have you been in your major?**  

I have been in this major for six years.  

**Is that including both undergrad and grad school?**

I mean, undergrad, I was a different major, so... 

**Right, right.**  

I guess with the undergrad it was a minor, so in that case it would be seven years. It was only really the last year that I started.  

**What is the story of you deciding on your major?**  

So I came into undergrad, without really a very clear image of what I was trying to do. I knew I wanted to pursue some kind of, um - not sure how to explain. 

So in high school I was curious about a variety of things, and I tried to read broadly. I read anywhere from economics and behavioral psychology to neuroscience, tried to dabble in a bit of math - wasn't like a lot of people who wanted to build their own machines and stuff as kids. That really wasn't my thing. I was really more curious about some of the bigger questions, like how things work or what intelligence is or how do we see the world or how do we understand things around us or people around us. So I was really undecided in the beginning of university, but because I had a college counselor who was, um - 

So my first school was in my home country, and in that year I was like a lot of people in graduate programs; I did fairly well in high school. That college accepted a very large range in terms of academic ability in high school - like grades, for example - so you had anywhere from people who were getting an SAT score of 1500 out of 2400 at the time when I was applying, which is not high. This was a huge range.  

I had close to a perfect score in the British high school system, which I did, so the college counselor did not let me stay undeclared. I wanted to be undeclared because I wasn't sure what I wanted to do, but she was like, "no", because undeclared in that college implied you weren't doing well academically, that you weren't a strong student in high school. So as a result, you weren't given the privilege of declaring your own major from the start. You would've had to go through extra steps to declare. So that college counselor said "No, you're not leaving this office without being declared." And it was a point where she wouldn't let me register classes as an undeclared student.  

I wasn't sure what I wanted, so I replied, "Okay, so what major would give me the most flexibility in taking classes I want, and then let me switch later?" She said "Well, mechanical engineering has the highest score to get in. So if you declare that, then it'll be very easy for you to go to the physics department, for example, and say, take a physics class; as opposed to, you know, if you declared maybe physics" - which ironically did not really require very high grades, because it wasn't in high demand - "it'll be very hard for you to take classes from engineering, for example." So I did that. And then after a year of being in that school, I decided to transfer. So I transferred to a school in the US, Georgia Tech in my case.  

And again, <laugh> college counselors were like, "Oh, well you're declared as a mechanical engineer, you got accepted as a mechanical engineering student, but you have classes all over the place." So for example, in the British system, in high school, you take all the way to multivariate calculus, which I believe is like something that you might get in AP in the US. But as a result, I had holes in my four year plan, right? I took some classes within the second and third year, but I also was missing a lot of classes from the first year. So they said, "Oh, the first priority is to fill your requirements. Otherwise you're gonna reach a point where you can't take any more classes in your major because you're missing requirements." So that was basically my sophomore year of taking those classes I needed to graduate.  

And you know, coming to the US on my own, it wasn't easy. So I took those classes. Then second year I was like, "Wait a second. What am I doing?" So I started declaring other minors. I declared biomedical, I believe I declared or tried to declare cognitive science major but I declared a minor, I declared a math minor. So I tried to switch stuff, but really the issue with the minor system is that you end up taking a lot of the intro classes, which are usually not very interesting. They're usually things that you were thinking about when declaring the minor, things you already kind of know. And sometimes the minor requirements are quite rigid. So I sort of dispelled with the idea and ended up dropping all those minors and decided to pursue research on my own.  

I reached out to a few labs. I did research with a biomechanics lab, which was one of the things I was interested in initially, like neural engineering. There's a professor at Georgia tech that did neural circuitry, connecting neurons to circuitry, but he was on sabbatical. So I ended up going into this biomechanics lab instead, which had excellent research opportunities. I just wanted to do research at that point. And the professor was very kind and took on a lot of undergrads. I believe there are four PhD students in different majors at UofM who went through that one lab - I think the professor had 40 undergrads in his lab at any given point. A very nice guy. So he helped me get into research, and then I switched and I did some stuff with biomedical data analysis with cardiology, which was also interesting.  

But then I was like, "I'm really more interested in intelligence, how the brain works, etcetera." So at that point, I started a minor in computer science because that minor seemed a bit better behaved. I already took intro CS, data structures, stuff like that. At that point, you're only taking upper level classes and you get your freedom of what you want to do. So I took that, and that made me want to do more CS stuff. So then I got involved with a computer science lab; the person I worked with was between cognitive science, which I was also very interested in, and computer vision. She was a postdoc who later became faculty.  

And she was very helpful: very clear mentorship, sitting with you, explaining things to you. At that point I decided "Okay, I think like I like this research thing, I'm really interested in the concept of intelligence and perception and vision and how that works, but there's a few different paths that I could take." There's some institutes like Berkeley, which has a vision science institute. There's a few schools that have cognitive science departments or schools. I thought I could pursue any one of those, but computer science seemed to be more "along the path" because if research doesn't work, you have good backup opportunities, which it's good to be pragmatic about. But also from a research side, a lot of other fields seem to be focused on very tiny, very specific problems.  

And at the time I was more idealistic. You know, more grandiose, I was like, "Oh, we're gonna solve the whole thing." Computer science seemed to be "We wanna build the whole agent. We wanna build an intelligent agent that can do all those things." So that also seemed more appealing to me. Plus this was 2015, so deep learning was all the hype. If you went to the cognitive science conference in, well, I went in 2016 and one third of the people were speaking about deep learning as a way to model the human brain and how it could be used to model the brain or human thought processes through symbolic structures. So going into that scene made sense. I ended up applying to grad school in computer science and actually cognitive science, but I only got into Georgia Tech, which was my home institute, and Michigan. And for a variety of reasons, including some personal ones, I decided to move institutes just to try something new.

**Okay. What is your most memorable story about academics time at UofM?**  

Oh, interesting question. Uh, like academics as in people?  

**Uh, I meant academics as like general academic uh, stuff that happens at a university.**  

Oh, okay. Interesting. Very broad. I'm not sure I have a very specific answer.  

**If you have a story that was particularly memorable, maybe not the most memorable then?**

Yeah. I mean, I took a class with this senior faculty in cognitive science and psychology, like I dunno, 600 or 900 level seminar. I forgot. It's one of those advanced seminars where the professor says "This has been my life's work" or "This has been the thing that I've been really set over for the past few years. I'm gonna have a class, a seminar of just like 15 grad students discuss papers, discuss the concept itself." A lot of people like myself - and I think this is a trend of some grad students - come in and are like, "I know everything. I understand the world," and there's a sense of not really listening to other people. It's unfortunate and something that I believe a lot of people grow from through grad school. Even if they started that way, a lot of people develop and they realize a Dunning-Kruger sort of thing - you don't really know that much. You have to listen to others.

But one thing that amazed me is that initially, the first few lectures, the professor was leading the discussion. This is someone who's a very senior person in their field. Very established, very well known, literally started the field herself. And we're talking about her area, right? And so initially she was presenting and talking about like, some of the seminal papers in the field, including some of hers, and then it became more and more like a discussion thing.  

And I got amazed throughout the class that she had a notebook with her! And a lot of times when students were explaining how they saw or understood this concept, or even explaining their point of view, she was writing things down. this was someone who again, literally started her own subfield, no exaggeration! She is the seminal person in that area who wrote the seminal papers. And listening to a bunch of grad students, a bunch of early 20-something year olds who were just starting their field. Some of them express a lot of egotism, "I am bright," including in many cases myself. It was just very humbling, seeing this person who was very well established, but incredibly humble, incredibly intelligent.  

One story is that I was talking to her and I was explaining what I was working on. I said "I do this thing, are you aware of it?" just to  make sure that I'm not just speaking in jargon to someone who is very smart, but doesn't know that specific thing. And she says "Yeah, I've heard of this." She wrote three papers on it! It's amazing! It's someone who's grounded in how much they know. And even though she was a coauthor on several papers on this problem, she didn't want to use her ethos of "I wrote this" to stunt the conversation. If anything, she acted as a beginner to allow me to express my point and talk more freely.  

Um, so that was a very humbling thing, especially since with computer science, you have a lot of very loud voices. Twitter is full of senior or even junior researchers in some companies saying "This is the field" or making very salient statements that are very confident about things that are still very much in debate. So it was interesting to see someone who was that established and that revered who was still humble and very measured. So from Michigan, this is one experience that has stayed with me. 3 years now, and I still get - whenever I hear someone who's being overly confident, especially sometimes first year students or even when I exhibit this behavior, I try to think back to that and say "Calm down." 

**What is the average number of hours you worked per week in an average semester at UofM?**  

I think the notion of average hours assumes a unimodal distribution, which is far from the truth for me. When you say an average, you're assuming that it's representative of some distribution where there's some variance on this side, some variance on that side, but telling you a mean when, say, you have clearly two modes, is not a very effective way to communicate that. Like let's say you have a bimodal distribution, right? Like you have something that, you know, looks like this, for example. Right? 

[The interviewee drew and showed a distribution similar to the following:]

<FLAG_FOR_IMAGE_INSERTION>

It's not really informative to give you an average, because the average is deceptive about the nature of things. So I think during normal times, the number of work hours that I work can be not that high. There are some weeks where I'm not really working at all. A lot of people go through stints where they just can't work, and some people try to push through it and stay there. It's unclear if that's for the better or for the worse. 

But on a non-deadline period, I like to work a full work day; I typically work into the weekend as well. I would say that if there's no deadline and I'm not going through a rough patch, I'll be working...maybe I'll get into the office between eight and nine and probably stay there until 6:00 PM or something. And at night, sometimes I'll work for another hour or something. So I would say from eight to six is what, 10 hours? If you exclude one hour for lunch or another hour for just messing around.  

So that's 40 hours during the normal work week. Sometimes I'll work on a Saturday or Sunday, something I've been trying to do less of. So maybe between 45 and 50 hours on a normal schedule where there's no deadline. During a deadline, it becomes a lot more. When you're approaching a deadline or a crunch period, that number can easily soar to something where I'm at the office from 8:00 AM or from 9:00 AM till midnight, and I only go back to sleep. I'll take a break in the middle, so that's roughly 14 hours a day. And I'll do that like, all seven days. So closer to a hundred. That changes - it's not every deadline that this happens - but this is the range that happens.  

And again, there are weeks where if I put in a solid 10 hours of work through the whole week, that's good. Sometimes you're running experiments and you're just waiting, and it's unclear what you do now, and you're not in the mood to read. But other weeks you say, "That's ridiculous." And it's up to you. I know some people who maintain a pretty consistent schedule throughout, and that schedule can go all the way from 40 to 50 hours a week, to every week they're putting in 80 hours. 

**No one has commented on this question with anything like some of your initial comments. So that's interesting.**  

Yeah, we've had this conversation between me and friends of mine and colleagues and stuff. One thing that people don't realize is that sometimes they count the number of hours at the lab as the amount of work they did. And that's not right. Maybe you haven't seen it as much because of COVID stuff, but there's a lot of times where you're chilling in the lab and just talking and grabbing lunch there. It's like people who have their social life and academic life in the library during undergrad - at Georgia tech, there was a building called CULC, which is the Clough undergraduate learning center, and it had Starbucks in the bottom of it, and the student center was pretty close, so you could grab food there and people just lived there. They just spent all their time there, whether they're studying, whether they're chilling, whether they're playing cards. It's just a place that you hung out.

So I think that's an issue because then no one is pushing. People burn out when they push all the time. So they end up just staying in the lab for very long periods of time without really working. And I used to do that, but I think recently I realized at some point you just can't work and you need to take a break. And if you're being unproductive, you need to acknowledge that you're not working - sitting on your computer reading random articles or scrolling Facebook is not work - and you might as well just leave. I think that's something that came with time for me, and then there are several professors who I've seen become very serious about not working one day a week or not working two days a week, and I've adopted that like three years ago. Told myself, "Life is beyond work." I try now to not work on Saturdays, but then if CVPR is in a week or something, then...well, you end up working.

**Mm-hmm.**

The bimodal thing, by the way, came from a paper I worked in where all the metrics were very bad because they were computing mean on a problem that clearly had a bimodal. So if you had a few examples of a failure mode, it just completely messed up the number and the benchmark saturated. It was a very bad way of computing progress on that benchmark, but people kept doing it.  

**I was wondering why you just had the distribution handy.**..

Oh no, I just had pencil and paper to draw it then.

**Ah. Unfortunately the next five questions are about hours per week, soo.**..  

I mean, I'm happy to answer.

**Well, I'll include your comments as well, because I think that's worth including. Anyway, what is the average number of waking rest hours you got per week in an average semester?**  

Okay, I'll just take it to mean "not work." I mean, I wake up, I need to commute 30 minutes on average in the morning, maybe one hour during the day, maybe like four or five at night. So that's six times...so 30 and then try to take all the Saturday, also another 16. And then maybe another half day. So let's say 50 hours. That's including lunch, including dinner, exercise...  

**What is the average number of hours you worked per week in your busiest semester, whenever that was? I know you mentioned that it kind of depends on deadlines more than the semester.**  

I mean, I had a semester where I was both GSI and writing a paper. So I think maybe I had like three hours off every day that semester and then maybe another like 10 hours on Saturday? So, 18...So I think on average, like 80 hours per week.  

**And then for that semester, what is the average number of rest hours you got per week? Waking rest hours again.**  

What's the difference?...so like 30. I try to maintain like a good sleep schedule. If I don't, I just completely crash.  

**What is the most number of hours you work in a single week?**  

Oh, probably sleeping eight hours a night, so probably 110 or 100-something? Over a hundred for sure. The week before CVPR, or before a deadline sometimes, I'm working pretty much every hour, not taking any breaks and sometimes it even goes into sleep, but if I count for eating hours and stuff, over 110 maybe.  

**Can you walk me a little bit more through an example of one of those weeks? Is this every time there's a deadline or was it one particular one?**  

I mean, typically you get this weird camaraderie that might be in some ways exhibiting a toxic work culture, but it is what it is, where around the deadline everyone is there all the time. So you're in this together, and there is a sense of overcoming this adversity, and you're trying to perfect it towards the end. During those weeks, it's a matter of waking up, going to the lab, and staying there for the whole time. You're either writing or reviewing or helping someone else with their paper or you know...and this is not very healthy. This is not very good. And there's been some efforts within our department and our greater research group of alleviating this by having an internal deadline.

There's also other labs that I've heard of, both at Michigan and outside of Michigan, that have very strict internal deadlines. So the idea that if you don't meet this internal deadline, don't try to submit or the professor won't be helping you or something. This is not a bad thing; if anything, it's potentially a very healthy thing where if your paper isn't in a submittable shape two weeks before the deadline, then maybe the science that would be produced out of this is not the best. Of course you can be perfecting, rewriting the paper until the end. But honestly, if you're not rushing with experiments or numbers, then it's a much chiller process and you realize that you need to take a walk, you need to go rest, you need to do other things.  

And that has been the case for me for some deadlines, where I was like "Okay, this is more chill. I'm gonna take my time with this." Especially if I have a good draft ahead of time. If it's the case that this is very much a last minute push, like I'm waking up, going to the lab, trying to grab something on the way there; or at the lab and just like working until I need to go, like the only break becomes food, basically - it gets stressful, but it's usually limited to a week. If you do it for any prolonged time, it ends up destroying one's psyche, in my opinion. For example, for the most recent deadlines, I've tried to not do this, and instead I play volleyball for example.  

I go to pick-up volleyball twice a week, even if there's a deadline I'm going for. Maybe I'll only go for an hour instead of three hours or four hours or something, but I'll go and play for a bit and come back, and it helps. In a previous deadline, I went to swim in the morning - I go swim before going to the office, and that helped me relax a bit and stay sane. But when it's a complete push, you're waking up and you're working through the whole day. And I think I'm even better than some people with this, because some people start completely ignoring sleep. They'll sleep three, four hours a day for that last week. And then they're putting in more hours.   

**Referencing what you said earlier: so do you think this sort of coming together of grad students before deadline and working hard on papers, is that precipitated by peer pressure or a need for results? What's the balance there?**  

I think the idea of coming together is more "so that this is a difficult challenge" and people aggregate whenever there's some adversity. It's hard to say it's peer pressure, because if you don't have a paper, you don't have a paper. It's not like people are gonna pressure you to conjure a paper out of nothing. On the other hand, I guess the peer pressure question might be about how much time you're dedicating to this. And it might be the case, but there is the sense sometimes. And I've seen this in some students where everyone is working hard and you feel like you should be, or for deadlines that I haven't submitted, there was definitely the sense that I'm missing out on something.  

I think like it was for a recent conference when I didn't submit a paper. I didn't submit a paper, but I wasn't in the lab until 3:00 AM or 2:00 AM. It was 6:00 PM or something that day, helping people. And I think it's good. There was no sense in which I needed to do this, but also, others are there, they're going through a rough time. And I was there like "Everyone, let me know if I can help in some way." And it felt nice. It's some of those times that you feel the sense of community is really there. But no, I don't think there's really negativity there. If anything, it's the need to put in those many hours. I think it would've been much healthier with the internal deadline mechanism, it would be much healthier because then you have a prolonged period of time to do those edits and then everything is slower and no one is like putting a strain on their body or their psyche to push for 

**Okay. How much control do you feel you have over how you spend your time?**  

A lot, and this is a bit fortunate because of the people that I've worked with. I think a lot of those things are very much self-imposed by me; no one is like "Oh, you need to be putting in this many hours". I've heard that in other labs it's different. I've heard of professors telling students you need to be spending this many hours in the lab or whatever. But if anything, my experience with the professors I've worked with, even the people I didn't like, has been positive. None of them ever said, "You need to be putting X amount of hours" or "If you're not working this much, you're uh, not great."  

If anything, three of them were encouraging and said "You need to take a break. You need to do this. Like, make sure to take time off." So I think I have a lot of control over how much time I spend, and in terms of how I spend that time. I think also there's a lot of freedom. There's no sense of "You need to be working on this". Only one person kind of did that, and it was primarily because of research funding, like "You're funded by this grant. You need to be doing this," which is fair, right? Like if you're working for someone, they expect results for them. But no one, no one ever said "You need to be here from nine to six", or at least no one enforced it. Only one person alluded to something like that, that this is a job and you need to be working.

**Did you have a change in enthusiasm for academic work since you began attending UofM?**  

<laugh> Oh yeah. It's, it's like a rollercoaster? Sometimes like meeting someone like the professor I mentioned earlier who was very humbling and very encouraging - like this is what I've envisioned a scientist or researcher to be like, and this is what I wanna be like. But I have a cynical demeanor about a lot of things in life, and that goes into research - so a lot of times I think "This is all stupid and it's useless". In the words of another faculty, "We're killing polar bears to train prettier models". It changes over time and at some points it's very exciting - it's very cool stuff! Um, and I don't know, it changes over time...like if you, I don't know how much you're into philosophy, but there are different schools of thought about, say, what it means to have a good life.

You have the existentialist who says "You have to make it your own, and this is what it is". Some of the older ideas were some notion of divine or predetermined meaning of your life's work, and then you get some schools, like I think stoicism is close to this - you know, you get life and sometimes you choose how to perceive it. So sometimes research is aiming for this great ideal, and that ideal might be understanding intelligence or building smart machines or discovering knowledge. And other times you're just doing some math and fixing problems, solving cool puzzles or cool things, and just spending your time talking about things you like with other people. And maybe that's all you get and that's enough.  

So yeah, over time it changes. I've GSI'd a few times, and sometimes the most I get out of academics is seeing students enjoying stuff. I've taken the advice of a previous mentor who told me to keep a happy folder where if something happy happens, I screenshot it, and I see it in this folder. Part of that folder is student reviews from a previous semester, because maybe the best you can do is get someone else excited about something and let them explore it and learn about it. And other times, you have this cool gem of an idea, and people recognize that this idea is cool, and they're nice. And you feel understood by someone else.  

Like one final review from the area chair for one paper where they say, "There's this tiny thing, a tiny, really cool idea, and I like that". And you feel understood, and that's happy and that's good. And you contributed something and you made someone else see something that they didn't see before. Whether that's through teaching or publishing, that can be very exciting. And other times you think "This is all stupid. The university system is a huge scam. The research is just funded by big companies to get people more addicted to their social media." So it comes and goes. 

**Did you have a change in overall energy level since you began attending UofM?**  

Yeah. I think a big part of that is something that I mentioned before, about how there's more to life than grad school and one shouldn't just spend all their energy doing this. So at the second year of my master's, I was easily in the lab every day, including weekends, from nine to nine. The only time I wasn't in the lab was occasionally going out with friends on a Friday night or something, or at the time,  going to see my girlfriend who lived a bit far away and was in a different program that kept her very busy. So the only times I was really not in the lab was either if I'm with her or hanging out with some friends. But otherwise I was pretty much in the lab all the time. Looking back, this was so stupid. Why did I do this? It wasn't worth it. So, so yeah, I think that has changed, but I think it's a positive change. I think now, the time I spend is more focused, more dedicated and I'm not burning out.  

**Did you have a change in the overall trend of your academic results since you began attending UofM?**  

Oh, yes. So prior to UofM, as an undergrad, I was lucky enough to be part of several research labs and published a few times in different fields. Got good exposure. And at that time, I felt I was intellectually pretty satisfied: I was working on new ideas, contributing in meaningful ways to several projects. Then I came to UofM and I had a period of a few years where I was reading a lot. And I think I got positive comments from both faculty and from other students about how "you seem to know this" or "you go with this" and stuff, but in terms of publishing, I wasn't publishing at all. And in terms of feeling like I was doing something, I didn't really feel that way. Part of that was like being in a lab in a research group that I didn't really fit in, but then I switched labs.

And part of it was due to the help I got from other faculty and feeling like someone was actually hearing what I was saying. I ended up producing more and I think I did pretty well. But then the next year, I think COVID caught up to me and I was a bit tired, and my productivity went low. But I think I'm still doing something, I'm still being proactive and talking to people and learning stuff. So I think that's been good, but it definitely comes and goes...and I had a pretty nasty period at the beginning of grad school that took a toll on me both physically and emotionally. But, it passed and I moved on.  

**Alright, shifting gears a bit: when you set goals for yourself, how realistic are they and how consistently can you accomplish them?**  

Good question. Uh, I think I try to set pretty ambitious but realistic goals, in the sense that, you know, you wanna publish, you wanna do something meaningful, such that it gets into a top conference - which is something that I'm doubting now, if that's a good metric, but that's an aside - you want to do something meaningful.

Not just pushing numbers, not just repeating what's been done, but rather you are trying to do something cool, like something that provides some insight on something. And I try to do that. I don't know how well I did that, but I'll work and think "I'm hoping to send a paper to this conference based on this idea" - so in that sense, I think whenever I said, "I'm gonna send a paper to conference X", maybe with one or two exceptions I've made that happen. The quality of the work? Who knows? I don't think we'll find out in years, like the...what was it? Well you know, when people see your paper, did they say "Okay, cool. Get it in," but no one cared; or does it do something?   

So I think that answers both questions. I try to set things that are ambitious but still realistic. It's not like I want to, you know, win best paper, which - cool, great, very happy for people who get it, but unclear that you can make that happen anyway. And this is huge: there are stories of people whose papers get rejected, then one year they submit exactly the same paper and get best paper honorable mention or something absolutely wild. If you want to get a paper in, you need to make it readable. You need to make it convincing. And I think that's something that is in your control. But for certain things outside of your control, I don't think it is realistic. So I try to be ambitious, but realistic. And I think I tend to hit those goals, but of course with some failure. 

**You touched on this a little bit, but in your education before UofM, were you ever a best or especially strong student?**  

Uh, I, it depends on, like...it's a reasonable question, but I think it betrays something which is, "best" with respect to which group, right? But in my highschool, I was the top student. I got the highest grades with a significant margin: there's me and one other student who both did very well, and then there was a gap and then basically everyone else in terms of grades. She did very well for herself as well and is pursuing what she likes and is very good at it. So in terms of that group, yes. And I got the highest grades in my high school, but my high school was a private school with 60 students. You have someone coming from a school of like 200 people, the pool is different.

You have a person who's coming in a pool where everyone else's parents are professors or people who are very engaged in academic performance, then you get different things. There's a very interesting study that I read about recently about the summer gap or something - I forgot what it's called. But basically the idea that when kids don't go to school for the summer, at the end of the summer, they do worse and they lose some of what they learned. It turns out yes, if you examine them immediately after they come, they have a slightly different ability. But after a week, the difference is diminished. After a month, the difference is completely non-existent. As a result, you end up with people who are, in machine learning terms, overfitting to some metrics, and they're good on those metrics, but not really good outside. And to some extent - I test well, I know how to sit down and take a test pretty well. Some people who are smarter, more insightful don't test well, and as a result, it becomes hard to compare them. So I think in terms of metrics associated with schools or institutions yes, in multiple cases. Graduated with highest honors, had a near-perfect GPA, et cetera, et cetera. But it's unclear to me that those metrics were that good to start.   

And also grad school is a much smaller pool. Like 2% of the US has doctoral level degrees. It's a very different pool to the general population, and the notion of best disappears, and it becomes very much about very contextual comparisons, which are very hard to make.  

**Do you or have you ever felt pressure to be superhuman at UofM?**  

Uh, not really. No. I feel like the expectations are pretty reasonable. At least in the labs I've been in. I've heard of people being asked to publish 12, 13, 14 times during their PhD or 20 times, and I feel that's, in some cases, overfitting the system and using very incremental work that is not very interesting. That's just being good at publishing papers, similar to the point I raised earlier with the previous question. And in some cases you have people who are superhuman, who are publishing 12 or 20 very solid papers - and good for them! Very impressive. But no, people are somewhat understanding and I don't think anyone expects you to do superhuman things. 

**Okay. What is your relationship with failure?**  

Uh, not a big fan! <laugh> I think it's something that I've grown more accustomed to. I think coming into grad school, I definitely exhibited a lot of arrogance, and potentially still do. But definitely at the end of high school, I thought I was - I mean, coming into grad school, I thought I was hot shit. I maxed out the GRE, had a high GPA - only had I think two Bs - and had published papers. I was thinking to myself, "Why am I here? I should be at the school with the best people." And you get a sobering call after a while talking to very intelligent people.  

And some of them are just very technically strong, and you see very technically strong people who are not very good outside of technical stuff - who don't see the big picture at all. You see people who only see the big picture and cannot solve any of the problems. And you also see just incredible people, like I've met undergrads who are very smart, very motivated or do much more than I do, are smarter than I am, learn more. And you become more sober and calm. You see people who are what you used to deem as failure, and now you see it as just different people doing different things. And I don't think there's an objective way of saying this is better than that. 

There are people who are more capable than others, for sure, and there are people who are better trained. But this isn't a competition. It's an educational program. If you're pitting people against each other, it's kind of lost. So to answer your question, my notion of failure used to be getting a B. I had a 4.0 for two years at my undergrad institution, and the moment I got that first B, I was very angry. I was like, "What the hell? This person doesn't know shit. This was unfair." But it's so stupid. Looking back, now you see that you have people who didn't get good grades, which was my definition of failure, who spent time exploring things in a much better way, who developed better personal relationships, et cetera.  

I think my notion of failure went from not meeting some metric to realizing there's so many metrics out there that you can use to look at things. You can be failing at a relationship. You can be failing at a friendship. You can be failing at research, and failing at research doesn't mean not publishing. Sometimes failing means publishing. If you publish work that you don't believe in or that you know is false, that is failure. If you publish work that is not interesting that you are just able to get accepted because, you know, in the words of I think Bill Freeman, it's a cockroach, it's a paper that you hate, but you cannot kill - you have to let it get accepted because it survived the process. That is a notion of failure: doing work that you're not interested in just to get promoted is, in some ways in my mind now, like a failure. I still don't like failure. I still try to avoid it. But what it means to fail I think has changed over my time at Michigan.  

**Okay. How do you react to academic praise from others?**  

I used to really like it. It's very good to be called smart. Now it depends, now sometimes it feels like a distraction. You have people who give paper talks, and you sing their praise for 10 minutes before they start talking. And that makes sense, right? This is someone who's being celebrated very much so in this moment. And of course you do that, but if you're introducing friends and you're saying, "Oh, this person is so smart, he's done this, he's done that - he's done that, and this person is so smart" - why? This is unneeded. It's inflating egos for no reason. So sometimes in a specific context, I really like it. I really appreciate it. Especially if it's sincere, if someone acknowledges someone else for a positive quality, whether it's being smart, insightful, helpful, whatever; but at other points, it seems insincere or for pretense, and I absolutely hate it. 

**What feelings do you have when you succeed?**  

Uh, happy? Like I'm happy if a paper gets in. If you pass the defense or qualification, it's nice. It's a good feeling.  

**How do you think others react when you succeed?**  

I think my friends are happy for me. I've had several friends in that department who are very happy when you succeed, and you can feel it, you can really see it in their faces and how they interact with other people. I think it can trigger some feelings of insecurity for others. Even if they're happy for you, even if they love you and they care about you, your paper getting in and theirs not getting in, for example, can be disheartening. Like, they're dealing with their own shit. And if someone's papers keep getting accepted and someone else's papers keep getting rejected, it can be stressful for them. So I think it depends, and it's not about me. I don't think anyone says "This person got a paper in, why did they get in?"  

But it's more like, "Why is everyone's papers getting accepted, not mine?" In that case, I think it can be, but it's not my success, but rather a success in the department or in their group. But I think in most cases, the people I try to keep around me are happy for me. There are people who are overly cynical, who will look at papers that get in and say "Wait, what the hell? How did this get in?" And to be honest, sometimes I have this reaction about some work where I - I'm just surprised. Like I didn't expect this to get in or to get accepted or to get an award or whatever. But I think this is a matter of maturity, and I think over time I've tried to say to myself, "This is someone I care about. It doesn't matter if I was surprised, I should be happy for this person." And I think this is something that you see more so than any kind of toxicity.  

**Have you heard the term burnout before?**  

Yes.  

**How would you define burnout in your own words?**  

I would define burnout as the sudden or qualitative change of the ability of someone to enjoy their work and/or enjoy the activities that they usually do. Or even perform them. So if someone goes from being able to work and enjoy their discussion, to suddenly they don't wanna talk about it. And suddenly they feel they hate it and stuff. That's the phenomenon, and I think it's burnout when it's caused by a prior expectation not being met. So I define burnout as the process of someone who is otherwise very motivated, very interested in a specific activity, having expectations of said activity go unmet. Which results in disillusionment and distance from the activity, and overall state of lethargy or not wanting to work, or not enjoying said work, even if they do it. Even if they're still going to work and putting in the hours, if they just hate it. So it's not a matter of someone not doing the work, but rather their relationship to it changing because of an unmet expectation.  

**Have you heard the term imposter syndrome or something similar before?**  

Yes.  

**How would you define that in your own words?**  

I define imposter syndrome as the notion that there are a set of expectations or requirements for someone to be in a specific group, which the person who has those feelings feels that they have not met. And as a result, they feel that they should not be in that group, and that they were only in this group through some deception or some misunderstanding. Or even when people know that they just are putting up with you or something.  

**Do you believe you've ever experienced burnout?**  

Yes.  

**Would you be able to describe some of your experiences with burnout?**  

Uh, I think I experienced burnout early in the PhD where I was putting in a lot of work for something with no clear goal and with an unclear set of expectations about what I should be doing, where specifically the responsibility was put on me to both be the researcher and the mentor. The mentee, and the mentor, I was expected to both - to know where I was going and sort of advise myself and be self-sufficient in a situation where I was supposed to be helped or aided or supported. So the combination of lack of support and confusion about like, what this meant and what research meant: this resulted in me going through a phase of not wanting to work and hating the work and getting overly cynical about my work, other people's work, how the field was going, et cetera. And it, it affected me mentally. It resulted in me putting on a lot of weight that I haven't been able to shed yet, and it trickled into personal relationships with others. Yeah.

**Do you believe you've ever experienced imposter syndrome?**  

Yes. Not a lot because of said arrogance, but I think there is a lot of cases where I looked around and I thought - not with the group I'm in right now, but the groups I wanna be in - I thought, "I'm not meant to end up in this group or that group," because I didn't study this as an undergrad or this is not something I'm really interested in or I'm in this by mistake. I think a lot of times imposter syndrome is phrased as intelligence or capability or talent - you're not smart enough to be here, you're not good enough to be here - but I think it also manifests itself as "You're in the wrong room", like you're a philosopher trying to be a physicist, or you're impersonating someone. The impersonation doesn't have to be someone better; it can be just someone else.  

And I think I faced that more. Sometimes I face it in "I'm not working enough" or "I'm not putting in the right work", or "I'm not being smart about how to work". But other times I've experienced this in the sense of "I don't share the interests of these people". I tell myself, "What am I doing here?" And I think that can equally be devastating. It doesn't come with the same insecurities of feeling that you have to lie your way through it, or make it seem like you're smarter or someone with results. I think with toxicity, there's stuff like talent signaling, like "Oh, look at me, I'm so smart, I did this, I did that", but it can manifest in a different way where you think "This field is stupid" or "All your work is stupid", which is another kind of toxicity, because it doesn't seem to be what I wanted to be.  

Consider two people working in the same field, and one person thinks of it as like a science, the other thinks of it as an engineering discipline. And one person is critiquing the other for being too theoretical and the other for being too practical. And I think that's a different form of it that is not really discussed as much, but I think it's equally valid. But yeah, I think I've experienced a bit of both and yeah, it comes and goes. I think it's part of insecurity. It just has its own name because it's prevalent. 

**How prevalent do you believe burnout is among your peers?**  

I think it's pretty prevalent. I think a lot of people experienced it. I think the potentially more instructive question would be "How chronic is it?" or "How consistent is it?" And I don't know the answer to that. But I think a lot of people I talk to seem to have experienced some sort of burnout, whether it's because they thought they were supposed to work a specific number of hours that they shouldn't be working, and that resulted in fatigue and feeling that they will never catch up and the resulting burnout. Or because of other expectations - how many papers you need to publish could also result in that. But I'm not sure how many people are actively experiencing it.  

**How prevalent do you believe imposter syndrome is among your peers?**  

I think it's common. I'm not sure how common, but I think a lot of people exhibit it. And it's funny because when I try to take a look at it objectively from the outside, I feel that a lot of people don't experience it, or that there seems to be an inverse correlation about experiencing it versus how productive someone is or how interesting their research is. I feel the people who sometimes get more worried about it tend to be more interesting. But some of the people whose research I don't really like seem to be quite confident in what they're doing. And of course this can be projection. This can be me projecting a lack of self-awareness onto them or them projecting an insecurity onto others.  

But I think it's common. I think a lot of people get doubts about what they're doing and how they're doing it, but some people seem to be unaffected. And those people can range from people that I view to be very brilliant and very smart to some people that, well, it's unclear to me why they're doing grad school. Not because they're not capable or not smart, but rather because they seem to not be interested in it at all. So I don't have a good answer for statistics. But I've seen a lot of the people that I care about and like to hear about and like to see what they do as research, they seem to struggle with it one way or another. And some people I respect a lot don't seem affected, at least to me.  

**How do you believe the COVID-19 pandemic has affected your awareness and experience with burnout and imposter syndrome?**  

I think it has aggravated burnout. I think I've experienced burnout a bit towards the end, as things were opening up. I think that's when COVID kind of hit me. I think like in the beginning, I was actually more productive through COVID than I was before or after. But near the end it sort of hit me. I think a lot of people got hit in the middle, with questions like "What am I even doing? Why does this make sense? Are we just wasting our time?" As well, Zoom sort of exacerbates some social dynamics that I don't think would exhibit themselves as well. Like with reading groups, for example, it's very easy for one person to dominate the discussion - and I'm sometimes guilty of that - and it's very easy for someone who is very hesitant to not see that other people are equally confused or equally skeptical. A lot of inner demons, like, "I'm not good" or "I don't get this" or "Everyone gets it except for me" become exacerbated. When you can see people's faces, you can see people equally struggling or not paying attention and not caring at all, just joining the group and doing laundry in the middle. So I think in terms of both burnout and imposter syndrome, I think it has exacerbated things, with different traits for different people. For me personally, I've become more aware through discussions where I didn't understand something, but it became clear that someone's thinking "I'm the only one who didn't understand this" and someone says "No, you don't, I don't understand this, and you thought I did". So there's a miscommunication there.   

**Wrapping up - considering everything we've talked about today, do you enjoy your academic work?**  

I think as I said with the rollercoaster, it comes and goes. Recently I've been on a bit of a binge of "This field is becoming super like - are we even doing science, or is it just a big popularity contest or seeing who has the biggest model or...?" But overall, no at the moment. You get to reading and to discussing things, and I think I enjoy that very much. I mean, I'm still considering an academic career, and research for sure is a big thing that I'm hoping to do. But I'm still considering an academic career despite all of that.  

So I do still like it for the greater part. But I think especially with like, things like machine learning, it's becoming hard to love the field because so much is going on and there's so much confusion. It's like the psychologist thing, the blooming-buzzing confusion, the baby's face I think - the field is the baby, and it's suddenly seeing all those colors and things coming and it's thinking "What's going on?". It's like "Oh, he grabbed the thing, he must be a genius," but no, there's just a lot going on. It's hard. But I think overall, the research itself is still satisfying.  

**How conscious were you about imposter syndrome and burnout before attending UofM?**  

Burning out? Not very much. I think I had a bit of a realization, I think second year of master's, of "Wait, if you turn on a motor and you just let it run like a blender with nothing, of course it's gonna burn out at some point." Then I was like, okay, when people mean burnout, they mean...? And then I got it, because I was working a lot, but without producing anything, without getting any friction. It was a weird personal realization, like this is how you blow a fuse. Imposter syndrome I've known of for a while, since undergrad.

**If you could send a message to yourself back when you entered UofM, what advice, if any, would you give regarding imposter syndrome and/or burnout?**  

Regarding imposter syndrome, I would just send the Dunning-Kruger plot, which I have behind my desk. It's a good reminder to oneself as well, because a lot of people preach about those things, and everyone is like, "You are also at the left, right? You could be on the left side of the Dunning-Kruger." So I think it's a good reminder to myself too; whenever I feel overly confident about something, it's probably because I don't really understand it. For burnout...I think my only advice would be a quote that I think comes from the culture of "going up". But my grandpa used to tell me "Love what you do until you do what you love", and I used to think it was absolutely stupid.  

I think my grandpa's brilliant, but I thought this, this was the only stupid thing he told me. Only recently I started realizing the wisdom of it. Because "love what you do until you do what you love" seems to imply being passive in a way, or you're saying "Shit happens, so just love it." And act like you love it until you end up solving this problem. But now I realize that there's a lot of projects I worked on that I hated, hated so much, but there were aspects of it that I absolutely would've loved. I just never gave myself the chance to enjoy it. And that resulted in 1. me not doing well on those projects and 2. hating every moment of it. So I think going back, if I could repeat this, I would just find the aspect of the project that you're enjoying, delve deeply on it and try to make the work about this, the project about this. And then hopefully you can do something that you love, as well as gain the experience to allow you to move on to something better. 

**Is there anything else you want to say?**  

Uh, unless you have any more questions? Nothing immediate comes to mind though. I think I've already spoke a lot! <laugh> 

**In that case, we'll call that a wrap. Thank you for your time and I'll end the recording there.** 

