**Okay, as a warmup, tell me a little bit about your education prior to coming to UofM.**  

Prior to coming to UofM, I went to a very small school in Michigan, and I've been there through middle school and high school. I would say it was a very interesting experience because it was a very small charter school, and in that school...I don't even know what to start. I think academic-wise, it was worse than a public school; but what made the school better in other terms was that because the class size was very small, everyone got to know each other. We used to go to a lot of events outside of school, like I would take a few courses at the local college as well while I was in school. I attended all sorts of different events.  

Like for us, one of them was this one where we would go to Detroit and be with a group of professionals and learn public etiquette, just asking questions to a lot of these people from big firms. So that was one of the things that kind of helped me go in the direction of business. On top of that, what we also had was a trip sponsorship to a different country, and I got to learn about another country's culture. I think it helped me develop as a person. But in terms of academics, um, I just had normal classes. 

Funny thing is, we didn't have physics. So I was taking physics at a local university, and I didn't do very well; but it was college level physics and I took it for the first time. It was an interesting experience, and coming to UofM with this kind of academic knowledge, I guess you could say I had a little bit of a lack of academics specifically in the STEM area. It made it a bit hard for me, definitely with mathematics, and I think computer science I found to be a bit more difficult compared to everyone else. But I mean, that once again could be a symptom of imposter syndrome, because you're coming from this very small school to this very large, very famous, and just like, recognized university. So there's that. Yeah.

**Approximately how many people do you count as your peers at UofM, whatever peers might mean to you?**  

Well, I would say peers is a lot, uh, "higher definition" than just, like, a friend or acquaintance. Peers just sounds like a network, just people I kind of know even a little, right? So that would be my definition of peer. In that case, I probably know quite a bit of people through Ross, engineering...I'd say definitely over a hundred, but you know, it's a very broad definition, at least for me. I think it also means people who are around my age - so if I'm a junior, then I'm also around juniors or people one year below or above me. That would be someone I consider my peer.  

**How many years have you been in your major?**  

Three. Uh, it's very interesting because most people would say three years, right? Since you've been a freshman, sophomore, junior, and you have one more year to go. But a lot of the courses are prerequisites your first year, and you don't really start doing your actual major until your sophomore year. So in terms of actually being focused on the classes for my major, you could say I've only been doing it for two years, because freshman year was more of an intro. There wasn't much actual business classes that I needed to take - there were a few, but they were a very small part of my first-semester coursework.   

**What is the story of you deciding on your major?**  

This is an interesting question. Well, when I think of my story, I think about it as...coming as an immigrant to America, right? America, what is America? - it's a lot of opportunities, and you know, where dreams come true. And what is America famous for exactly? Capitalism, right? Making money. I think coming from a background with not a lot of money, of course the number one thing that you can think of is just going into business and learning how to do business. It also happened that my father encouraged me to go to a business school, because he had this intersection in his life where he had an option: either pursue business, or go into military school. And there wasn't business school in the country that I'm from; it was more just selling things.  

And he kinda regretted not going to business, so he encouraged me to go into business. That's kind of the reason I went to business - but I also have a bit of a technical inclination as well. So that's why on the side, I also decided to pursue the computer science minor - I thought that would be valuable, and just doing business by itself would be too easy for me. It provided a very nice well-rounded coursework where I'll be challenged, but at the same time wouldn't be completely burnt out. And also for business, for the future, it provides a lot of opportunities. The Ross school of business is one of the top business schools in the country. If I did not get into UofM, I'd have to go to, uh, definitely a more niche college, less well known. I would have probably got an engineering degree because first of all, competition would not be as stiff; and second of all, the business school would not have as much clout as Michigan Ross. So evaluating these factors, that's why I chose Ross and chose to pursue business at UofM.  

**What is your most memorable story about academics from your time at UofM?**  

I can tell you that one thing that definitely isn't super memorable, looking back, is my sophomore year during COVID. What happened is I just sat behind my computer screen doing classes, homework after homework. One time I feel like I...I don't know what happened, but I somehow let it get to the point where I sat like in my apartment for an entire month, like I wouldn't go out at all. I'd just do coursework and go like, just screw around and just be in this cycle where work-life balance - like you just do work and you kind of mix it with fun, but you mix it all together. And then you're stuck in your room for a long time. And then you say, "Okay, this needs to change", right?  

But in terms of memorable coursework, I think a lot of people in Ross agree with me: it's the first semester of our junior year. Because we have this thing called our RIS [Ross Integrated Semester], where we have to take four courses and they're all integrated with each other. So a lot of topics overlap. We also work on this one final report and presentations, and we do that all while also taking all those courses. Basically, it's a very intensive semester compared to the rest of the semesters. One time I stayed up with my team until 11:00 PM; I just worked the entire evening on this report and tried to make it as good as possible.  

And we also met multiple times before that to discuss it. But it was a lot of that in terms of academics. Um, I guess also a question about, uh, uh, so what about activities? Like they’re kind of academic, but they're not specifically related to your classes? Um, is that something you'd want me to talk about as well? 

**Sure.** 

Uh, so that's a thing too. Over my junior year, Ross also held this one competition, and I think that's gonna be my most memorable experience out of all things, ironically not specifically related to class. But I matched up with a random group of people, and we essentially played the role of executives in a company crisis.  

So we started receiving phone calls about how some of our software is discriminating against people based on their race. It was a whole PR crisis on paper, and we had to prepare a presentation, a video; and the next day we actually met up with 20 professionals in the room who were supposed to play the role of the board of directors of the company. And we just stood there for 20 minutes presenting without any preparation session, just talking through our action plans and what we were going to do. 

It was a very cool experience because, uh, I always wanted to become better at public speaking and expressing my thoughts. As an immigrant, it's not the easiest thing in the world, and going through that experience definitely helped me out a lot. I think it definitely gave me more confidence, and just working on the team in a very short period, but also making so much impact and going through so much personal growth - I think it's wonderful. 

**What is the average number of hours you worked per week in an average semester?**  

I think that's where an issue is: I cannot tell you exactly what the number is. A lot of the work I did - probably the best way would have been just do work and do no work, kind of like how you work at a job nine to five and then do nothing else, or at least do something completely unrelated to your work. But the way that I've been doing things with school is that - again, I don't recommend this - is I would work and relax and play at the same time. So do a bit of work, go to class, chill, then do a bit of work, then chill, then do homework, and next thing you know your whole day is done. So it's very hard for me to say how long I actually spent working, because a lot of it has been so intertwined with my personal time. Looking back, I wish I would be better at separating it, but at the same time, there were times where the meetings would only work at this time with these people.  

So you know, whether you wanna work then or not, you kind of have to, because there's no other time to meet them. It could be super late in the evening, or it could be early in the day, or a combination of all. On top of that, I think it depends how much effort you're putting into your work. Personally speaking for me, writing essays, for example, takes much longer than most people. Like other people can get it done in an hour, but for me it'll take many hours. But I know it's gonna be high quality writing, which is what I aim to do. The same thing with programming too; I've essentially been taking a programming class every semester, and what ends up happening - in some classes I ended up doing pretty well, but that's because I spent just too much time, clearly.  

And when I took EECS 485, I worked with a group of two people. These guys were real fast, and it made me realize just how bad I was at time management and just how long it took me to learn the subjects that they learned very quickly. But on the bright side, I didn't actually spend that much time on it compared to other classes; but I feel like I definitely learned less because they just kind of speedran the learning and the projects compared to me. Yeah.  

**So do you have an estimate on that? Anything that you would consider work.**  

In terms of classes, about 15 credits, and that's about 15 hours of classes and logistics - for the sake of simplicity, say that that also includes time to commute and to get to class, because you know, CS, you put on a lecture and you watch it on 2x time speed or something. Definitely saves you some time in that regard. But I would say work outside classes took most of the time, so probably...50 to 60 hours a week probably, I would say.  

And even when you don't do work, you kind of think about work, right?  

**What is the average number of rest hours you got in an average week in an average semester? Rest hours while you're awake, so not during sleep.**

Okay. Well, if you're counting weekends as well, then of course it's gonna increase the number of rest you have compared to weekdays - but I would say maybe three or four hours per day. But once again, if you just do work in the morning and during the day and then you do three to four hours where you do nothing, I think that's not bad. But for me personally, I kind of intertwined them with my actual work, so it just felt like I was doing work all the time.   

**What is the average number of hours you worked per week in your busiest semester, whenever that was?**  

Okay, so busiest semester is definitely, again, my junior year, because I was doing actual classes, the projects and reports, and just recruiting and applying to a bunch of companies. I would say maybe 80 hours a week, maybe. Well, if you're talking about weekends, I'd also spend a lot of time on the weekends, so 90 hours even. Yeah.  

**Okay. For that semester, what was the average amount of rest hours you had in a week?**

I would say two to three hours a day, maybe. I mean, the math may not exactly add up there, but like 50 to 60. But once again, it's difficult to define rest necessarily. Okay. for the other question, maybe it's four to five instead, because that would make more sense.  

**What is the most number of hours you've worked in a single week?**  

In a single week? Uh, once again, junior semester, maybe like a hundred. Yeah.  

**Can you walk me through that week?**  

Well, I don't have any specific week in mind because they all kind of blend together, more or less. I know there's certain weeks that are more busy than others - but essentially: wake up, have a quick breakfast, go to class. When you're in class, you know, you just do work, like classwork and whatnot. After class, maybe meet up to do some work on a project - that's not even a project related to class - go back home, do homework, have dinner with a few other roommates, and then when you have time, work a little bit more on the project, work more on homework, the project, and also do some applying for jobs too.

So recruiting and interviews too, because you have interviews as well.

**How much control do you feel you have over how you spend your time?**  

So do you mean right now when I'm interning or during my academics?  

**During academics.**  

Academics...okay. I definitely feel like I don't have that much control because once again, I feel a lot of work involves meeting with other people, right? You might wanna rest at, for example, 8:00 PM, but if 8:00 PM is the only meeting time that works for everyone to meet up, well...yeah. Then you just have to meet up, more or less, or otherwise risk pushing back the project and doing worse on it. 'cause once again, with academics, keeping up a good GPA is a pretty good motivating factor to do work. Uh, what was the question again? Sorry, I forgot it.    

Yeah, so definitely university doesn't feel like I have that much control, although I'm sure there's a way to actually keep track of my time. I would figure out certain spaces where I don't do as much as I think I do, or some of my hours where I'm more productive than others. So if I could rearrange that probably would have resulted in me getting more work done in less hours. But overall, I feel like in the beginning you have a lot of energy, so you kind of do whatever's being thrown at you and you're fine. But then, coming after midterms and into the second half of the semester, you're starting to feel tired, and at that point you almost feel apathetic, where you're just like, "Well, I'll just do work, just try to get it over with, get the midterms over, get the finals over."  

And then I rest because it's a break. So definitely less control. I think it depends too - if you live by yourself, it's probably easier to do it; but if you live with other people, then you have to go to go shopping or eat dinner at this specific time, whether you feel like it or not, more or less. Or for example, you just socialize or you have friends over and you talk and play games together - although that also feels nice and feels like you're taking a break from schoolwork, that also takes away from "me" time, from your own personal time where you just wanna do the things you wanna do for yourself.  

Yeah, that's outside academics. With classes, it depends how well you can schedule it. If you schedule too early in the morning, you know, and you're not a morning person, you'll be very tired throughout the day. You don't have as much energy, and if you don't have as much energy, you're less productive, you're spending more time doing less work. So definitely it depends per semester with how many classes you're taking, how hard the classes you're taking are, what commitments you also have outside of classes - you have clubs and whatnot, they also can take away from your time. That's another thing I forgot to mention; I did go to meetings for some clubs during some weeks as well, on top of everything else. But other weeks, it felt like just too much, and I didn't end up going.   

**Did you have a change in enthusiasm for academic work since you began attending UofM?**  

Enthusiasm? I think the thing that was weird about the COVID semesters, which means my sophomore year, was that enthusiasm kind of just dropped, because everything was you staring into the screen. Even though you learn, I don't feel like you retain as much information if that's all you do, first of all. Second of all, everything kinda blends in together, and you do lose enthusiasm over time. And of course the social aspect as well, because the busier you are, the more tired you are, the less you want socializing - and that's not particularly good for your mental health either. You want to have some level of socializing or just having a break from work. What was the question again, sorry? I keep forgetting them. I'm going through my thought process and things are firing through my head.  

Okay. I think I would say not? It more depends just from semester to semester, it fluctuates. So in the beginning of the semester, I have a lot of enthusiasm for work; but as the semester keeps going, it just slowly goes down, down, down. And then closer to the end, you just kinda wanna get it over with, you know, and then you have finals and whatnot. So I think enthusiasm probably goes down after that. Then the moment the break starts and the enthusiasm rapidly starts climbing up again, because you start to look forward to doing more academic work once the break ends. But it's not like after coming to UofM, I'm just like, "I don't study anymore". At least, that hasn't been the case with me.  

**Did you have a change in overall energy level since you began attending UofM?**  

I would say so, but once again I think that was because I was challenged a lot more the more tired I became and whatnot. But I think it also depends how much physical activity you get and how many days you take off, 'cause I had conversations with friends who say that sometimes you just have to take a day where you just do nothing, nothing related to academics at all. And I found it very difficult because I pretty much had something to do every single day of the week. Whether it was a Saturday or Sunday didn't make a difference, there was something I had to do. By not doing that, I feel like I lost some extra energy and that I could have gotten extra productivity. Then another thing that I think helped is...before my junior year, I would say I wasn't very physically fit.  

I definitely wasn't. It also plays a role how much energy you have, and during the course of my junior year, I started going to the gym. I started exercising, growing some muscle...I think being physically fit definitely helped me have more energy, even increased my levels of enthusiasm as well. I definitely didn't feel as burdened or, um, how should I put this? As down? Not sad, but down in energy, just feeling negative altogether. That definitely decreased.   

**Did you have a change in the trend of your academic results since you began attending UofM?**  

I think it's an interesting question because if you're just looking at - because of the COVID semester, going back to that, a lot of our classes were pass / fail. One nice thing about that is that there are some classes that were kind of hard, but you do not have as much pressure to do really well at those. Because you could just pass them - so for example, you could  put a decent amount of effort into that class, but put more effort into other classes and do well in those. So you could prioritize classes better in that regard. Sorry, what's the question again?  

Yeah, I actually had a very high GPA back in the high school that I came from, but also one of the reasons for that was that my school wasn't very good, specifically academically speaking. I took a few AP classes, but it wasn't like every class I took was an AP class, which I know a lot of people I'm friends with - like they just tell me how they have so many AP credits, because all they did was take AP classes at their schools. Of course, coming to UofM did decrease my academic uh, you could say ranking, quite a bit. But that's also because I go to a very competitive school with a lot of competitive people who are pretty smart and know what they're doing. That's not a surprise to me. But I think despite that, I'm still doing pretty well. I'm happy where I am at in terms of academics. Could I do better? Probably, if I could manage my time better, put more emphasis on certain projects, asking more for help from friends, from faculty? Yeah. Also, like I said, the COVID semester being pass / fail definitely helped. Otherwise, I think I would be in much worse shape in terms of academics.

**So shifting gears a bit: when you set goals for yourself, how realistic are they and how consistently can you accomplish them?**  

So of course, there are lots of different goals, right? You also don't wanna put too-specific goals into the future, so you don't pigeonhole yourself - but uh, I think of short-term goals, like my to-do list. Like "So I'm doing this today, these are my assignments for the rest of the week, and here's what I need to do". So I think I like daily and weekly goals, they definitely help me stay on track. And usually I get them done. Sometimes, uh, the hardest goals to achieve for me personally are the ones that don't have a deadline, so they aren't probably specific for school, but it's like my own thing where I wanna do something, but at the same time, it takes quite a bit of effort. So I just keep delaying it, and it just almost feels it's never going to get done.  

 There have been cases where at some point, I feel motivated enough to actually just go and do it. But in other cases, it felt like I just delayed so much, at some point I  lost all desire to achieve that goal. But if you're talking about long-term goals, like after school, career, or getting further education like a master's degree, I like to keep those goals a bit more open-minded, once again so that I don't pigeonhole myself and have more options to explore. I understand that at any moment in time, I don't know everything, I don't know what I don't know; and as I just talk to people and learn more about their experiences, I can narrow down on those goals. And if I narrow them down enough, then I can set deadlines for them, because I know that I want this and this, I need to accomplish this, and here's my step-by-step process as to how to do them.  

Another thing that helps is just reverse-engineering the goals. So for example, you start with an outcome and you look at all the steps it'll take for you to get there and figure out what your first steps should be. I would say consistency-speaking, overall I do accomplish my goals, because I use methods and I feel motivated enough to do so.    

**Okay. In your education before UofM, were you ever a best or an especially strong student?**  

Once again, I went to a small school, there wasn't a lot of competition, but I did pretty well. Because it was a small school, small class, teacher knows everyone, I asked a lot of questions to teachers if there was something unclear. I did not have any fear or anything of them being mad at me. I just kept asking questions, trying to learn my best, and I did pretty well. But when coming into university, for example - because I was also taking courses outside my school. So at community college, I took one scholarship course, for example. I did really well at that, but also it's community college, so you know, that's not a surprise. Those don't tend to be very difficult, and you don't have a lot of competition in those classes. But when I'm talking about physics - my school did not have a proper physics class, so I actually had to go to a local university. There was only 10 more people in that class, and they were even juniors too. They weren't freshmen or anything, they were juniors taking that course at the university and I was a junior in high school. So there was almost a four year difference! And the funny thing is, even though I didn't do that well in the class, I still passed it. But that class went from 10 people to only like, three people actually ending up passing, including me. So then I have a question: was my school just not good at teaching these STEM subjects, or maybe, um...I don't know, maybe it was just a difficult class, right? That's probably common. So I don't know. I definitely think if I went to a public school, for example, with all the APs, I definitely would have been doing much better academically speaking at UofM. But my chance of getting into UofM would probably also have been lower, so I dunno.  

**Do you or have you ever felt pressure to be superhuman at UofM?**  

Superhuman? I definitely feel like there is the case, but not when we are talking about...I think in terms of academics, when you're doing a major that's especially difficult for you and has lots of course load, I don't think in terms of that you are superhuman; but if I put into words as in there's expectation of you doing really well in your classes, having a social life, going to a bunch of clubs, and just having a bunch of meetings and having a leadership role - I think when you combine all those together, then it becomes an issue of being a superhuman. Because I do think you should just focus on one of those things more than the others. I prefer academics because you know, I'm at a university and I might as well maximize my learning potential and things I learn.  

But if you wanna be everything and get lots of sleep as well, I don't know how that's possible, unless you're an actual superhuman. And there's a lot of external pressure, because people do a lot of recruiting. For example, I know top companies recruit from UofM engineering, you know, and they're paying, clearly. Those probably expect you to not only have really high GPA in an engineering major, which is very difficult, first of all; but second of all, they also have a lot of expectations for stuff outside classes, or the projects you worked on, or leadership roles in your clubs, right? Taking all of that into consideration, it's difficult, yes. There's also a lot of competition for certain clubs or certain internships, too, and those also require almost superhuman resumes or just a huge variety of experiences. And of course some people also have good connections and with those, they also get into good roles. So yeah, that's my answer.  

**What is your relationship with failure?**  

So I like to believe that I use failure as an opportunity for growth and that I'm never afraid of failure, but I don't think this is necessarily true. Because for small things, it's probably okay to fail - that's not an issue. When it comes to bigger things, of course if you really care about those, it's not like you want to fail those. You want to do well. So you definitely have this almost sinking feeling in your stomach when that happens, like, "Oh crap, why did I do this? This doesn't make any sense." Of course, foresight is 2020. But overall, I would say that I do welcome failure for the most part. I like to avoid it if possible, but if this can't be avoided, then just go through it and get it over with as fast as you can.  

Also on the cost of failure, it's about a growth mindset, right? If you wanna get anywhere or learn anything, you definitely should be expected to fail a lot. I kind of set this expectation for myself going into the future, into my career, into maybe like, things that come from socializing with people. Failure is a big aspect to learning. But also I feel, if you're relating failure to academics, right? If you do bad enough in a class, I think that's probably a very bad feeling, because - that only means you, you know, you tried your best, you didn't do as well as you thought, so you're missing a lot of knowledge that other people have gotten in classes. At the same time...I mean you challenged yourself, right? That's the most important thing. It's all about comparison. If you compare yourself to other people, then everything you do will seem like a failure, but what needs to be compared to is how you were the day before or the week before or the year before. And if you see improvement in yourself, whatever that may be, that's good. You're on the right path.  

**How do you react to academic praise from others?**  

Academic praise? I would say I usually don't really get much academic praise. <laugh> But it definitely feels nice when people praise you in terms of academics. But uh, I don't know. I definitely appreciate it. It definitely doesn't happen often enough for me to think about stuff like that. I think most of it has to come from internal motivation; you should not be motivated by other people saying, "Good job, you got an A, yay!" For me, that's like - given this class, given what I know, given my abilities, I should be able to get the A in this class, this should be the standard for me. Anything lower would mean that I haven't tried my best, right? So you have that kind of thing, and of course you don't...in school, you don't really have professors praising you unless you did something extraordinary. So I don't really think about it that often, no.  

**What feelings do you have when you succeed?**  

Well, I feel good, like everyone else does! It definitely motivates you to keep working harder and better at whatever that might be, whether it's your coursework or things outside the typical university curriculum. Um, wait, what was the question again?  

Okay, yeah. Well you definitely feel good, you feel elated...but again, it all depends. It depends on expectations. If you have the goal of getting an A in this class and it wasn't, let's say, a super difficult class, then you just say, "Oh nice, I got an A. Next, let's move on to something else." But if this is a class where you had no idea you were gonna do this well, and you struggled quite a bit and you do well, then that's a good feeling. Then you wanna celebrate it, you wanna tell everyone about it, like, "Hey, you know this class I just kept bitching to you about? Yeah, I actually did pretty well in it, surprisingly." So it all depends, I think, based on how much effort you put into a class and what your expectations are. But it also means that if you have high expectations but don't have the ability or time to fulfill that, you can also be disappointed and not succeed.  

**How do you think others react when you succeed?**  

I think it all depends on what I succeed at. I feel like - if you're talking about two things, right? So let's say two people are taking the same class and you do well in this class, but the other person doesn't do as well. I think they might be happy for you, but at the same time they might be feeling jealous, or just thinking "How does it come so easy for him or her", right? You definitely have that aspect. But if you're talking about two people succeeding in different roles, different things, then it becomes much easier for them to both be very happy for each other. And you know, just seeing others who are happy and enthusiastic for you makes you happy as well. 

It's definitely a very nice feeling too. It also depends what friends you have. You might have friends who praise you quite a bit when you succeed, like "Yeah, good job, I know you could do that!" Or other friends could be like, "Oh, good job, bro, you did good". I feel like I have more of the second relationship with my friends, and when it comes to me, I'll have the same thing going with them. But yeah, that's essentially how I think I go about praising and people go about praising me.  

**Have you heard the term burnout before?**  

Burnout? Yep, I've heard quite a bit and I think I've experienced it at times as well. It just...although you're still doing work how you usually do it, you're clearly not doing as good, or not you're doing it as efficiently. And you definitely feel like you could benefit from a break too. Definitely heard about the word burnout, I've experienced it myself, I think I've seen other people go through it. It's definitely not fun, and it happens more often at the university than I think most people...well, I would say I think most people do assume that burnout is the standard at university, to some degree; but I don't think that should be the case necessarily. Like it should not be normalized. I mean, occasional burnout I think makes sense, but you also need resources to recover from it too. But if you don't have the resources or the ability to do so, whether it's because you're packed with courses and whatnot, I think it's bad. I think it's bad not just for your mental and physical state, but also for your academics too. And you learn less as a result, because you're not as efficient.  

**Have you heard the term imposter syndrome or something similar before?**  

Yep, I've heard quite a bit from my classes as well, and I've experienced it myself on a few occasions. I think it also depends on the subject you're talking about, because if we're talking about me with business, I haven't been feeling it as much. I mean, I can give a few examples where I felt like an imposter, for example when we talked about how I take a longer time to write an essay or something - it'll still be a good essay, but other people that I know would do it pretty quickly. And then I feel like an imposter because it's like, "How could they do this? I can't do that." That's one thing, for example. 

I feel like at UofM, when it comes to more technical classes, like computer science or mathematics, you definitely feel like more of an imposter there because people seem to have a much better idea what they're doing. They learn much quicker. They have...I think it depends on your peers and how far the difference between you and your peers is. Like in a business school I haven't been feeling it as much, but in more technical, uh, computer science classes, it definitely is a very persistent feeling. If you've ever done a project or an exam, you look at the curve , you realize you're below the median - that's quite a bit...yeah. You feel like an imposter.  

**Real quick, how would you define that in your own words? Imposter syndrome, that is.**  

Yeah, I define it as feeling like you are performing at a much slower level compared to your peers. Because if you...I feel like you can't really recover from that. The problem with that is you can only make the imposter syndrome go away if you can learn something faster than they do; but you all have natural abilities and you're better at certain things than others. So with those people, over time the gap can actually grow even more, because then they just learn and learn and become really good at. You're still trying your best to learn, but you just can't keep up with them. And the gap just increases, and at some point you just realize, "Oh, I think I'm pretty, I'm really imposter at this. Maybe I don't belong here."    

**You've already answered that you believe you've experienced burnout. Is there anything you want to elaborate on that?**  

I think going back to the first point: when you start the semester, you feel very excited, very happy. But then as the semester goes on, as you start to study for the midterms and finals, then you definitely start to experience it more and more. I feel like if you have time and a good hobby, that could be a way for you to counter burnout. But if you don't have one or the other, then over time, it does catch up to you. And I've experienced this with certain classes or just a combination of different classes together. It also depends on your socialization level, like how social you are. For example, certain projects require you to communicate with a lot of people pretty often, and if you're an introvert and you know, you don't have your batteries recharged, then you feel just like a zombie, you just hope to get it through as fast as you can, go home, and just pass out. But then you wake up the next day and it's more of the same.  

It's basically about powering through during some points.  

**Similarly, you've answered already whether you believe you've experienced imposter syndrome. Is there anything you want to elaborate on there?**  

One thing that I'll elaborate: I feel like you're very aware when you're feeling like an imposter, but when you're really good in a subject area and you're talking to a person who might feel like they have imposter syndrome, I don't think you notice it a lot of times. For example, with one of my business classes, - which was focused on business information systems and stuff like that - I felt very comfortable in that class, much more than other people. I felt all around comfortable with this class, but a lot of people I was working with, they just talked about how they don't understand anything, how this is all very confusing; but I just kinda threw it to the side. I didn't pay attention to it, but then I was also thinking about it and it's like, "Huh, so this is what imposter syndrome looks from the outside, for someone who's not experiencing imposter syndrome". 

I definitely think it's worth taking note of that and maybe encouraging people or asking if they need help, because it's not fun being an imposter. And once again, if you feel like an imposter for a long time, you might stop putting as much effort into it because you think you'll never get good at it, and the gap will just grow wider and wider between people who don't feel that they have imposter syndrome and people who do.  

**How prevalent do you believe burnout is among your peers?**  

When I'm talking about my business peers, I think that burnout is not as high - my burnout was higher than theirs for a lot of other reasons. A lot of them had pressure for recruiting to keep up their GPAs, which meant outside business classes, which a lot of times weren't the most difficult classes in the world, they took a lot of easier classes. So that definitely made it easier for them when they didn't have to spend as much time, for example, in the week or effort studying. But for me with every year, I found computer science classes to be quite difficult at UofM. So for me, that definitely took quite a bit of time. It felt like one class took the time of two or even three business classes.  

There's even a joke around how one 281 EECS project equals an entire semester of Ross. I found them pretty funny. <laugh> It didn't feel that extreme, but at times, there are definitely certain moments where...yeah, I think these guys definitely experience less burnout. And I think again, it depends on your peers, your group of people you hang out with. I hang out with a pretty small group of people, and sometimes - you know, we do don't do it as often, but other people who are more social, who live in a fraternity house, they go out for social events, partying, and I think for them it probably helps alleviate the stress from school. I don't know for certain, but that's my guess.  

**How prevalent do you believe imposter syndrome is among your peers?**  

So, isn't that the same question?  

**Um, the first question was about burnout. This one's about syndrome.**  

Oh, burnout. Okay. Maybe I'm just confused because they're overlapping, but okay. Yeah.   

I think it is somewhat prevalent too. Like I said, I think the biggest issue with school - it's not because the work you do is necessarily hard. The issue is that you don't have, like, days off. The notion I like to think about is that if you are holding a cup of water for a few seconds or a minute, it doesn't feel too bad. But if you hold it for weeks or a month, your arm will get really tired and you'll be very tired just by holding that one little glass of water. That's kind of the notion and that's what I think of in terms of school and how if you don't take breaks, that's what's going to happen to you. Even little things, because they just never go away and there's always more, more, more. If you keep using your muscle but you never let it rest, it gets to you. 

So I think burnout is pretty prevalent - but of course you can't just go around and ask people "are you burnt out", right? Most people probably hide it or try to avoid the topic altogether. I mean, some people probably power through, they just drink a bunch of caffeine and they just drink coffee every day. Or maybe some people go with a more controversial option, just use some kind of drugs, even. I definitely haven't met those people, but I'm sure there are. So I would say that burnout's somewhat prevalent. It depends on school, too. UofM? Prevalent. Other schools? Maybe not so much, but it depends what they're studying, right? The reason I say this is because I'm interning right now, and quite a few people are from a different school. A lot of them say how they do only a few hours of work outside of classes, so it's not coming out of nowhere. I've heard some conversations.  

**Okay. How do you believe the COVID-19 pandemic has affected your awareness and experience with burnout and imposter syndrome?**  

So similarly...I think in terms of imposter syndrome, sometimes it can even help if you feel like you're good at tech. I feel like I'm pretty good at technology, so I know how to use shortcuts on my laptop, how to have an efficient workspace...but I feel like that's not the case for a lot of people. So probably for them, it might be more difficult. For me personally, I think the burnout comes from socializing, with COVID. Because you didn't socialize even occasionally, so life just becomes work and work and work, especially if you don't divide the fun, play hours versus working hours and it's all mixed together. 

I think for imposter syndrome, it actually makes it even easier, because you see people over video, but you don't talk to them. Because when you're socializing with people, they like to brag: "Oh yeah, I'm going to this company for an internship. Oh yeah, I did this and I did really well in this class, and this is the project that I worked on, look at me guys I'm really smart." Right? I feel like in that case, it's a lot easier for people to feel more like an imposter. So COVID-wise I think better for imposter syndrome, worse for burnout. That's my opinion.  

**Okay, close to wrapping up: considering everything that we've talked about today, do you enjoy your academic work?**  

Yeah, I do enjoy it. Definitely at times I wish I could take a break during the semester. If they, for example, offered more break days, one day where you could take a break, or in the middle of it they just offer a week off - because in the past few semester we had the issues where we have this random week of break, or we don't have one at all, or we have this one, like, not even in the middle but somewhere close to the beginning and close to the end. Super imbalanced for sure, in terms of just letting students rest.  

**How conscious were you about imposter syndrome and burnout before attending UofM?**  

I don't think I was very conscious, and I hadn't even heard about it that much. Also because I went to a small school, I don't think my workload was crazy. It was very easily manageable. So I definitely did not feel burnt out. In terms of imposter syndrome, I didn't feel it either because I was the top of my class. I was one of the better students in the course, so I didn't feel any of those things. But once again, I feel like you kind of need those two things a little bit, just for personal growth; and that's what UofM allowed me to get. And you know, UofM's also a school where everyone from the top of their class goes to, so it's basically a bunch of kids that go from their, you know, top of the class of their schools, all mashed together. 

And this is what you get - this beautiful soup of pain, misery and occasional happiness when it turns out you actually did much better than you thought. Of course you make friends along the way as you go through it. And this is an experience you're not going to forget anytime soon. And you know, that's what makes me so proud to be a Wolverine. A lot of alumni from UofM, from the ones I met, definitely felt proud, and I can see why - because this experience...you can't really describe it. You have to go through it.     

**If you could send a message to yourself back when you entered UofM, what advice, if any, would you give regarding imposter syndrome and burnout?**  

So going back to what I talked about, definitely figure out a way to better balance your time - your time where you just do schoolwork and the time where you just have fun and do nothing else. That's one thing when it comes to burnout, do more of that, take a day off if possible. If you could divide the work between Saturday and Sunday, just do all the work on Saturday, for example, or Sunday - and have the other day off completely. That's the advice I would give for burnout. In terms of imposter syndrome, I would say talk to more people, realize that, you know - other people who have imposter syndrome don't really speak up, it's probably more of an internal issue. So you have to speak up to your professors or your friends and ask them for advice, ask them to help you show the ropes around, for example, this project.  

And of course, be understanding that other people are also very busy too, and they might be feeling the same way. You're not the only one in that boat. And I feel like...don't ignore the issue for too long, like at first it might be okay to ignore it, but after some time, it can catch up to you and it will actually impact your mental health and your academic performance, which will impact your mental health even more. And you downward spiral into pure pain. Yeah.  

**Is there anything else you'd like to say?**  

No, not when it comes to this interview, at least. Definitely took a bit longer than you probably expected, but maybe I'm just a bit long-winded.  

**Well, in that case, thanks for doing this. I'll stop recording there.**