As mentioned in the [interview procedures methodology](/methodology_interview_procedures), interviews were processed through rev.ai. Rev.ai's automatic transcription is pretty nice and pretty cheap ($0.03 per minute, meaning I only spent about $50 to do all the preprocessing), but it does require you to go back and correct mistakes; additionally, I wanted to make additional edits for clarity. This manual editing process was easily the most time-consuming and frustrating part of the project; I estimate that it took 60-80 hours.

There's a valid question of whether or not I removed any text that would severely impact the content of an interview. I personally don't think I did - I think all of my edits improve flow and conciseness without destroying the authenticity of the interview. But those small edits can still affect a story, especially how an interviewee comes off to a reader. More concerning to me is whether the transcription software misrepresented some numbers in a way that I didn't catch.

This website was created in React. It honestly probably didn't need to be, and if you're interested in doing a similar project, I wouldn't consider lack of web dev skills a barrier to entry. Medium or Google Sites are common easy ways to set up a blog post-style series like this. Even if you do want something more custom than Medium or Google Sites, an app in Bootstrap or Flask or some other framework with a little more tooling than raw React would make life easier. I probably spent 30-40 hours on the website, which includes processing all the interviews into markdown files.

I won't be open sourcing for a bit just because 1. I want to post any source code under my actual name, after I deanonymize; and 2. you can just Ctrl+C, go to the "Sources" tab, and fetch the source files if you really want (and 3. it is not particularly pretty code). 

I used Krita to create the burning block Ms on the front page. An animation would've been cool but also somewhat gratuitous. This only took an hour.

Writeups for methodology were shorter than writeups for observations. The 11 observations took about 8 hours, while the methodology pages each required less than 2 hours. This specific methodology page took about 10 minutes at most.